# GO-- Compiler 
##### aka GOMM Compiler

The project entails the design of a programming language and the 
implementation of a compiler that translates code written in that language
to MIPS assembly code. My language is called ‘Go--’, since it is partially 
based on the Go programming language. The ‘--’ is to denote that it has 
fewer features than Go. The name is a misnomer; this language has far more
in common with C than it does with Go. The only feature of Go that is 
replicated here is the trailing type names for variables and function return 
types.

Go-- is a statically-typed procedural language. It does not permit user-defined 
types. 

The MIPS assembly code generated by this project is meant to be run on MIPSym,
which is a MIPS simulator and IDE that I helped to develop. 
You may download Windows, Mac, and Linux versions of MIPSym at MIPSym.com.

The output of this compiler should also run on SPIM, but I cannot verify
that it will always generate SPIM compatible code, since most of my testing 
was done with MIPSym.

### License
I have chosen the MIT license so that you are free to modify or reuse any of
this code as you wish.

### Quick Start

1. Learn how to write Go-- code!
    
    The simplest way to do this is to read some of the sample code in the
    testCodeGen folder. [testProgram1.txt](testCodeGen/testProgram1.txt)
    demonstrates most of the features currently available in Go-- in about 100 
    lines. If you have had any experience with a C-derived language, you will 
    probably be able to figure out most of the language just by reading that 
    file. You will probably find the function declarations a little strange: 
    return values are part of the function declaration. 
    
    The boring way to learn Go-- is to read the 
    [LanguageDesign.md](Documentation/LanguageDesign.md) document 
    in the 'Documentation' folder. Much of the grammar is described there in 
    Extended Backus-Naur form.
    
2. Write some Go-- source code!
    
3. Run the compiler.
    
    This part is easy, as long as you have Python 3 installed. From your 
    command line, invoke Python with the file 'GommCompiler.py' and your Go-- 
    source file as the arguments, like so:
    
    `$ python3 GommCompiler.py source.gomm`
    
    all done
    
4. Run the output .asm file in MIPSym, SPIM, or some other MIPS simulator. 
    
    You can do this with MIPSym by launching MIPSym, click 'File > Open (Ctrl-O)',
    select 'source.asm', click 'Run > Build (F8)', and click 'Run > Run (F9)'.
    If you prefer the keyboard, you can also open the assembly file directly
    from the command line with:
    
    `$ MIPSym source.asm`
    
### More Information

Check the Documentation folder for 
[user documentation](Documentation/UserDocumentation.md),
[the language design document](Documentation/LanguageDesign.md), and
[a list of unimplemented features](Documentation/UnimplementedFeatures.md).
